## BUMP command

**Summary**

Privileges: System administrator or operator

Function: Logs out a particular user or a set of users

**Syntax**

```
BUMP
{[FORCE]
userid | usernumber
| ALL
| FILE filename
| SUBSYSTEM subsysname FROM location
| QUEUEMANAGER | QM] qmname
| MODULE module-name}
```

**Where:**

* **FORCE:** specifies to interrupt users that are running an external module. Users that are not running an external module are not affected by the FORCE option. If specified in combination with other options, the FORCE option must be the first option.
* **userid:** is a character string that identifies the user who logged in to Model 204. All users who logged in under this user ID are logged out.
* **usernumber:** is the number associated with a particular user.
* **ALL:** are all current users.
* **filename:** is the name of a Model 204 file.
* **subsysname:** is the name of a Model 204 application subsystem. To bump all local users of a Parallel Query Option/204 remote service subsystem, use: `BUMP SUBSYSTEM subsysname FROM location`
* **qmname:** is the name of queuemanager created with a DEFINE QUEUEMANAGER command using MQ/204 to support MQSeries.
* **module-name:** specifies the particular external module whose users are logged off when using the External Call Facility.


**Example**

BUMP 237

**Usage notes**

The BUMP command logs out of Model 204:

* All users of a Model 204 login user ID
* A particular user
* All current users
* All current users of a file
* All users of a specified subsystem (except those in non-bumpable states such as back out)
* All users on a specified queue
* All users of a specified external module

**Note:** Only users who are running the specified external module at the time the BUMP MODULE command is issued are bumped; subsequent users of the module are not affected. To prevent subsequent use of the module, use the EXTERNAL STOP statement.

The status flags displayed by the MONITOR command can indicate whether the user is bumped immediately. User IDs, which are specified by the system manager, can be all-numeric strings. User numbers, which are supplied by Model 204, are always all-numeric. When an all-numeric string is specified in the BUMP command, Model 204 first attempts to find a matching user ID. If no match is found, Model 204 then assumes that the string refers to a user number.

Whenever a BUMP message is displayed, it is preceded by a header line as is shown:

BUMP username HELLO

**M204.1124: 1 USER(S) SCHEDULED FOR BUMP**

* The bumped user sees, if SYSOPT=8 is not set:
**M204.1401: FORCED LOGOUT DUE TO BUMP**

* If SYSOPT=8 is set, the bumped user sees no message from Model 204 and is returned to the interface from which he came.

An operator can enter a BUMP command in response to the outstanding reply generated by the HALT command. However, BUMP cannot be used to terminate Host Language Interface IFAM2 or IFAM4 threads.

After the BUMP command has been run, the system manager, system administrator, User 0, or operator who issued the command is informed of how many other users were affected.
