## RKTools

RKTools - Rocket Tools for Model 204 - is a family of products implemented as SOUL application subsystems, designed to function together in a Model 204 Online. Prior to version 7.5 of RKTools (October, 2015), the product was known as UL/SPF. Each product in the family can be installed and run independently, or each can be installed and run as a component of the integrated RKTools framework. All RKTools products share a common look and feel, providing a highly productive full screen 3270 interface to a variety of common Model 204 functions. In addition, many of the component subsystems also support web interfaces.

**Contents**

1. **RKTools components**
2. **RKTools packaging and installation requirements**
3. **Integrating RKTools with other subsystems**
    * **3.1 Fast-pathing**
        * **3.1.1 PL command**
4. **Release notes**

**RKTools components**

RKTools comprises the following products:

* **SirDBA:** A system that analyzes Model 204 databases to determine their logical structure, populating an internal catalog. SirDBA is distributed as a component of the Sir2000 Database Analysis Tools.
* **SirFile:** A comprehensive facility both for monitoring the physical storage utilization of Model 204 database files and for warning users of the need for file reorganizations. SirFile maintains historical information that allows it to predict when file sizing problems will occur, allowing a DBA to take preventative action before an application outage results.
* **SirLib:** A powerful and flexible system that provides change management and configuration control for Model 204 SOUL applications. SirLib is fully integrated within the SirPro programming environment.
* **SirMon:** A comprehensive facility for monitoring the performance and availability of Model 204 online systems. SirMon combines the real time monitoring of Model 204 performance with intelligent full screen displays that facilitate System Manager and Administrator duties.
* **SirPro:** A collection of powerful and easy to use tools for programmers, database administrators, and application managers. SirPro provides programmers with powerful facilities for managing large libraries of SOUL procedures, and it provides system managers with intuitive ISPF-like front ends to many Model 204 system management commands. As of RKTools version 7.5, SirPro also incorporates the user-extensible SoulEdit editor, which can also be invoked from a command line call to the (optional) Model 204 application subsystem SE. Because the procedure list feature of SirPro is so central, it too has an optional standalone subsystem called PL.
* **SirScan:** A high performance utility that allows users in a Model 204 Online to browse the contents of its journal in real time. SirScan permits ordinary users to view journal entries generated by their own online session, and it allows users in ADMIN SCLASSes to browse journal entries for any set of users. The data is displayed in a full-screen browser with powerful searching commands and filtering options.

**In addition:**

* As of version 7.7, RKTools products are accessed by a web interface (RKWeb) as well as by the traditional 3270 interface.
* The FACT subsystem, a utility for browsing SirFact dumps, is indirectly linked into the RKTools menuing structure as a SirPro option. FACT is also available from the RKWeb interface (Build > Fact Dump Analysis).
* As of version 7.7, RKTools provides access to Dictionary/204, notably including the Subsystem Management facility (SUBSYSMGMT) and the File Management facility (FILEMGMT). These facilities are available from the RKTools TN3270 main menu and from the RKWeb interface (Manage > Subsystem Management and the Manage > Dictionary sub-menu options).
* As of version 7.7, RKTools provides access to the Model 204 SQL Server DDL-generation tools CCACATREPT and CCATSF. These facilities are available from the RKTools TN3270 main menu and from the RKWeb interface (Manage > Dictionary > SQL Catalog Reports and Manage > Dictionary > Table Specifications).
* As of version 7.7, RKWeb provides access (Build > Tune Reports) to the the reporting portion of SirTune, the SOUL program SIRTUNEREPORT.

**Many sample web and client-server applications developed for the Janus product family are distributed and installed along with the RKTools products, although they are not linked into the RKTools TN3270 menuing structure.**

**These applications include:**

* JanCat, an application that builds normalized views of Model 204 data for use by Janus Specialty Data Store applications.
* JanSSL, a Janus Network Security system for creating and managing SSL certificate requests. This application is available from the RKWeb interface (Manage > SSL Certificates).

**RKTools packaging and installation requirements**

All of the RKTools products are Model 204 application subsystems written in SOUL. RKTools is distributed as a set of Model 204 files in a backup format produced by the Model 204 DUMP command. All SOUL-based products are distributed in a single Model 204 procedure file. The file is M204PROC as of RKTools 7.7; for earlier versions the file is SIRIUS. RKTools makes extensive use of specialized SOUL OO classes and $functions. These classes and $functions enable the creation of powerful SOUL application systems that can support complex environments with minimal server size requirements.

Installing RKTools requires:

1. Downloading the M204PROC or SIRIUS file, and restoring it to the Model 204 environment where the tools will run.
2. Setting up some subsidiary Model 204 files.
3. Verifying that the environment has the appropriate parameter settings.
4. Running a program that performs all installation functions for new users and all upgrade functions for reinstalling users.

**Upgrades to RKTools can almost always be handled by restoring a fresh copy of the M204PROC or SIRIUS file.**

**Integrating RKTools with other subsystems**

RKTools and any of its constituent products can be easily integrated with other SOUL subsystems. Whenever an RKTools component product is exiting, it first checks to see if the global variable SIRIUS.COMM exists and has a non-null value. If so, the RKTools product performs a subsystem transfer using the value in SIRIUS.COMM as the name of the target subsystem.

**Fast-pathing**

The RKTOOLS subsystems support fast-path navigation. For example, a SirMon user can transfer into the SirPro main menu option 1 destination (the SirPro procedure-list selection screen) by using the component subsystem name or short-code along with a menu number:

* sirpro 1
* Or:
* pro 1

And a user in SirScan can enter sirmon 3.1 on the command line and be transferred directly to the option 1 (Resource Usage) destination of the SirMon main menu option 3 (User Monitor) screen.

**PL command**

PL is both a special subsystem and a command that lets you directly enter the Procedure List screen in SirPro. The command is like a pro 1 fast-path command combined with procedure-search specifications.

**Release notes**

Each RKTools release has the version number of the Model 204 release whose features it can exploit. For information about member product changes and new features contained in a release, see the RKTools release notes appropriate for your version of Model 204:

* Release notes for RKTools V7.5 for Model 204 V7.5
* Release notes for RKTools V7.7 for Model 204 V7.6 and V7.7
